# Express.js ReSTful API Mock Server 

Originally developed for [Reyhoon.com](https://www.reyhoon.com)'s development process, it's a simple mock server to remove production server dependency from client-side application development cycle. It supports `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, and `DELETE` HTTP methods, is highly customizable, and needs minimal configuration to support new resources.


## Getting Started
- Make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) and [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) installed.
- Clone this repository:  
`git clone git@github.com:Ferixz/express-mock.git`
- Go to project directory using `cd express-mock`
- Install dependencies using `npm install`
- Initialize data store files using `node seed.js`
- Start the server by invoking `node mock.js`
- Mock API will be available at `http://localhost:4000/`.

### Adding Resources
- Add resource key to `stores` object.

~~~javascript
// -- mock.js
var stores = {
  books: []
}
~~~

- Put the respective data file inside `data` directory (e.g. `data/books.json`).

~~~javascript
// -- data/books.json
// Store files contain a single array of resource objects.
// Resource names are plural by ReST convention, so are the file names.
// It is neccessary to provide an `id` attribute for each object.

[
  {
    id: 1,
    title: "Second Foundation",
    author: "Isaac Asimov"
  },
  {
  	id: 2,
  	title: "Islands in the Sky",
  	author: "Arthur C. Clarke"
  }
]
~~~

Restart the server and you will have access to `books` resource using the standard ReSTful API convention:

	URL	  		| 	Method
:-----------:|:-----------:
`books`  		| `GET`
`books/:id`  | `GET`
`books`		| `POST`
`books/:id` 	| `PUT`
`books/:id`  | `DELETE`

### Notes 
`POST`, `PUT`, and `DELETE` method calls will persist data in respective resource files located at `data` directory. This is due the fact that I needed data persistence in an development cycle/iteration.
This behavior can be disabled by setting `always_persist` option to `false`.

~~~javascript 
// -- find this line in mock.js
app.set('always_persist', false);
~~~
However, a better approach would be to put your seed data inside `seed` directory (with the same hierarchy as you would do with stores in `data` directory) and simply copy them all over to `data` directory. 
Essentially, data directory is a developer/session dependent data source, which is the reason its contents are ignored from this repository.

You can either do this manually or use the tiny `seed.js` script that is written for this purpose. Note that it will replace the files with the same name at the `data` directory.

~~~bash
$> node seed.js
~~~

Keep in mind that when `POST`ing data to the mock server, you don't need to provide `id` attribute as it is generated by current timestamp.

~~~javascript
// -- mock.js
router.post('/panel/:resource', function(req, res) {
  // ...
  model.id = Date.now();
  // ...
})

~~~

You should also mind the `DELETE` method response, as it always returns **success** status, even if the model does not exist!

#### What happened to `patch`?
I believe `PATCH` method lands on the wrong side of **state transfer** philosophy of **ReST**. I omitted `PATCH` method from almost every recent APIs I worked on (or just mapped them to `PUT` actions), and benefited from more stable and bug free API calls. 

## Special Resource Handlers
If you need to provide a different behavior for some resources, add the route handlers before default ReST handlers.

~~~javascript
// -- Somewhere in the mock.js file you'll find these lines

...
// Put special resource handlres HERE
// ...
// End of special resource handlers
// ===================================

// Default ReST Handlers
router.post('/:resource', function(req, res) {
  let resource = req.params.resource;
...


~~~


## The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 Farzad

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.